120
Additional Option
Possession of a Bachelor's or Master's degree equivalent from an accredited institution located in a country where English is the native language.
Successful completion of two university or college level English courses at a regionally accredited U.S. institution.* Successful completion is defined as obtaining a minimum grade of C (2.00) in each of these courses. These courses must be equivalent to the University's English composition, advanced composition or technical writing course. *Matriculated Old Dominion University / English Language Center students must receive prior approval from the Office of International Admissions to take English composition courses at another institution for the purpose of satisfying the English Proficiency Requirement.
Successful completion of the Monarch English Transition (MET) Program (formerly the Bridge Program). Successful completion is defined as satisfying the following two criteria: a.) Securing a minimum grade of B and demonstrating 85% attendance in each English Language Center class; and b.) Securing a minimum grade point average of 2.50 (undergraduate) or 3.00 (graduate) in academic courses taken during the MET Program.
Students who choose to satisfy English proficiency requirements through the on-campus ELC will be placed according to the following criteria:
TOEFL iBT score below 61 (500 paper-based), IELTS score below 5.5, Duolingo below 105: automatically eligible to enroll in the Intensive English Program (IEP) .
TOEFL iBT score between 61 - 78 (500 - 550 paper-based), IELTS 5.5 – 6.0, Duolingo 110 – 115 (if program applicable) : automatically eligible to enroll in the MET Program , which includes both academic and semi-intensive ELC course work.
English Language Center IEP students may enter the MET Program directly without TOEFL test scores after satisfying the following requirements: a.) Successful completion of level 5 in the IEP program with a 'B' grade or higher; and b.) Receive passing scores on level exit assessments. This option is only available to students that have progressively enrolled in the Intensive English Program.
Admissions
