Dr. Bernice A. King Appearance Postponed
Dr. Bernice A. King Appearance Postponed
share
Old Dominion University is sharing an important and timely scheduling announcement. Dr. Bernice A. King’s highly anticipated appearance, originally scheduled for Tuesday, January 23, 2024, is postponed following the passing of her brother, Dexter Scott King. The University appreciates the community’s flexibility and understanding as the King family mourns the loss of a beloved member.
Dr. King was scheduled to deliver the keynote address at the University’s 39th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Observance. We will welcome Dr. King for our 2025 celebration event with a confirmed date to be announced as soon as possible. The University will also postpone the presentation of the Hugo Owens Martin Luther King, Jr. Award until that time.
The Monarch Nation extends its deepest condolences to the King family during this difficult time.
Dr. King, a minister, attorney and author, serves as CEO of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change (The King Center), which was founded by her mother, Coretta Scott King, as the official living memorial to the life, work and legacy of her father. In this position, she continues to advance her parents’ legacy of nonviolent social change through policy, advocacy, and education and training.
Under her leadership, The King Center has implemented initiatives reaching more than 500,000 people around the world. She led the development of a certification program in the Kingian philosophy of nonviolence, Nonviolence365™ (NV365), and serves as an instructor for the program.
In 2013, Dr. King led “Let Freedom Ring,” an event commemorating the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, where her father delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech. Event participants included President Barack Obama, President Bill Clinton, President Jimmy Carter, members of Congress and international leaders, dignitaries and entertainers.
She has worked to encourage business leaders in Atlanta to become more active in support of racial equity and social justice issues, including the successful passage of Georgia’s Hate Crime legislation.
She is a recipient of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s highest honor, the Phoenix Award, which recognizes individuals who have made significant contributions to society. In 2021, she received the Atlanta Business Chronicle Lifetime Achievement Award for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. She is the author of “Hard Questions, Hard Answers” and a children’s book, “It Starts with Me.”
Dr. King holds a Doctor of Law from Emory University, a Master of Divinity degree from the Candler School of Theology at Emory University and a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Spelman College. She also received an honorary Doctor of Divinity from Wesley College and Clinton College, and recently received an honorary doctorate from her alma mater, Spelman College.
