Housing
If planning to live ON campus...
Learn more about the various housing options, agreements, terms & conditions. Reminder: Students must activate their ODU Email/MIDAS account before proceeding with the online Housing & Dining Application.
Apply early, as on-campus housing is in high demand.
If planning to live OFF campus...
The majority of international students choose to live off-campus, and there are many options available, however, it will take effort on your part to choose suitable accommodations. It is highly advised to not enter into any contractual agreement until you have arrived in Norfolk.
Off-Campus Housing
Required Health/Immunization Records
Student Health Services requires proof of several immunizations. It is less expensive to take care of this requirement before you leave your home country.
Undergraduate Students
Register for Monarch Orientation, ODU's on-campus orientation program. The events include educational planning, course selection and registration, student and parent interaction, and an overview of resources and campus life.
A Writing Sample Placement Test (WSPT) is required of all students, and results are required before your scheduled Monarch Orientation date.
The COMPASS math placement test is not required, though may advance your mathematics placement level.
Graduate Students
Graduate students are encouraged to schedule an advising appointment with their academic department well in advance of campus arrival.
The New Graduate Student Orientation provides an overview of university services, polices and procedures as they relate to graduate students. This program is separate from department level orientation programs. Pre-registration is recommended.
Recipients of ODU graduate assistantships requiring classroom instruction must attend the Graduate Teaching Assistantship Institute (GTAI). Additionally, non-native English speakers must take the SPEAK test. Your department sponsor/mentor will advise if the GTAI and SPEAK test registration is required.
English Proficiency & SPEAK Examination
University Admission, with the condition of full-time English language instruction, requires campus check-in directly with the English Language Center (ELC) in 1108 Dragas Hall.
Students who would like to establish English Proficiency before enrollment will need to submit an acceptable test score report from the current options for meeting the English Proficiency Requirement .
Graduate students required to take the SPEAK test will need to contact their department and the English Language Center.
Campus Check-In
Your first stop on campus is 2006 Dragas Hall, located at the corner of Hampton Boulevard and 49th street. All new and returning international students beginning a new program of study must present their visa and immigration paperwork prior to course registration.
Be prepared to present the following information or documentation:
Current U.S. address (even if temporary)
Passport/I-94 entry record
All visa documentation (I-20/DS-2019/proof of status)
SEVIS I-901 fee payment receipt (F-1/J-1 visas only)
ODU award letter or sponsorship/financial guarantee requiring third party direct billing
Any outstanding academic documents (original transcripts, diplomas or test scores)
Additional Reference
