Visit Campus
Discover Your ODU!
Ready to take the first step towards your college journey? Whether you prefer the comfort of virtual exploration or the excitement of on-campus adventures, we have you covered throughout the entire year! Our range of opportunities includes student-led tours, engaging events, and more, all designed to help you make informed choices about your academic future.
Book a Campus Tour
Get a sneak peek of our vibrant campus. Secure your spot today by using the link below. Limited tour size options are available.
Take a tour
Reserve a Group Tour
Bring your school or community group to campus for a visit and discover what the future holds at ODU. This tour option is available for 10 or more attendees.
Explore Campus
Discover our waterfront campus from anywhere in the world! ODU's campus comes alive through video and pictures.
View the interactive map
Open House
Visiting ODU for an Open House is your opportunity to explore campus and find your fit as a future monarch. Register today for an upcoming Open House!
Register Now
Academic Days
Explore ODU's colleges by registering for Academic Days. Discover a wide array of majors with over 100+ programs of study options available at Old Dominion University. These events are designed to help you explore various interests and make informed decisions about your academic path. Don't miss out—register for one or more Academic Day experiences today. Register Now
Tour for Transfer Students
Ready to elevate your academic journey? Old Dominion University extends a warm welcome to transfer students! Discover the seamless path to joining our University as a transfer student. Our informative campus visit offers valuable insights into the transfer admissions process and the vibrant student life that awaits you. Join a guided tour, led by a fellow student who has successfully navigated the transfer experience, and get a firsthand look at the boundless opportunities available at our institution. Register now
Once you've registered, we encourage you to schedule a meeting with our Transfer Initiatives Office if you require pre-transfer advising following the tour. These advising appointments are designed for students who have completed at least 12 credit hours. To initiate a conversation with a transfer advisor during your visit, click here .
Spanish Language Tour
There is no better way to explore Old Dominion University than with a 90-minute walking tour of our beautiful campus. This tour is guided by Spanish-speaking students and admissions counselors, ensuring that all family members can comfortably access information in their preferred language. Explore the 'why' behind ODU, witness 'where' it all happens, and uncover what it truly means to reign like a Monarch! Secure your spot today– Register Now
Resources for Your Visit
