Search our programs by academic interest, program or career. Academic Programs ►
Admission Requirements
View application requirements by program. Admission Requirements ►
Admitted Graduate Student Guide
Your commitment to learning has been rewarded with admission into Old Dominion University. Now is the time to start planning and making arrangements for an exciting experience. Admitted Graduate Student Guide ►
FAQs
Answers to frequently asked questions. FAQs ►
International Graduate Applicants
Resources and information for International Student applicants. International Graduate Student ►
Non-Degree Applicants
Eligibility
Students who are under academic suspension from Old Dominion University or any other institution are not eligible to enter as a non-degree student.
Admission to ODU as a non-degree student does not guarantee admissions to a specific degree program as a degree-seeking student.
Registering for Classes
Once the application has been processed, students will receive an email confirmation with instructions on registering for classes.
Non-degree students are eligible to register for classes during open registration. Prior to open registration students can view the course schedule for the upcoming semester via http://courses.odu.edu
Registering for Classes
Once the application has been processed, students will receive an email confirmation with instructions on registering for classes.
Non-degree students are eligible to register for classes during open registration. Prior to open registration students can view the course schedule for the upcoming semester via http://courses.odu.edu
Financial Aid
Non-degree students, including those in certificate programs, are not eligible for financial aid.
Changing from Non-Degree to Degree-Seeking Non-degree students must complete a new application for admission to a degree program. Students who have already paid the application fee are not required to pay a second application fee."
Reactivation Applicants
For students seeking reactivation. Reactivation ►
Resources
Graduate School
The Old Dominion University Graduate School serves as an advocate for graduate education and collaborates with the college deans, graduate program directors, and the faculty to ensure excellence in all of our graduate programs.
In addition to the many services and resources that are available to graduate students, this office's website includes links to all of our graduate degree programs and the names and contact information of the faculty who serve as graduate program directors. Learn more ►
Research Centers
Contributing to solutions across a wide swath of industries. 2017 research figures, $50 expenditures and $49M funding awarded. Research Centers ►
Campus757
In Hampton Roads, you can be yourself while continuing to grow and achieve. From career to community, Campus757 is here to help you make the most of your college years. Visit Website ►
Admissions
