Monarch Must-Dos
Visit Campus
Visiting campus is the best opportunity to explore ODU to see if its a good fit for you and your educational goals.
Events & Tours
Monarch Orientation
Monarch Orientation is ODU's on-campus orientation program. The events include educational planning, course selection and registration, student and parent interaction, and an overview of resources and campus life.
Learn More
Housing & Residence Life
Get the most out of your college experience by living with us. There is a place for you in our on-campus residence halls or University Apartments.
Monarch Dining Services
Offering friendly, comfortable and fun campus restaurants that serve up a variety of enticing cuisine every day.
Learn More
Cost & Financial Aid
Old Dominion University understands the financial concerns you and your family may face when trying to finance higher education. With the help of the ODU Office of Finance and the ODU Office of Student Financial Aid, you can explore ways to help fund your college education, regardless of your economic circumstances.
Student Resources & Engagement
ZeeMee
You've been admitted, now join our community! Old Dominion University has partnered with ZeeMee, a free app for the ultimate college journey, where you can chat with other students getting ready to attend college! We're live, so check it out! ( Join Now )
SET
Student Engagement & Traditions (SET) is designed to shepherd students through their Monarch experience from confirmation to commencement. ( Learn More )
Health & Safety
Your health and safety at Old Dominion is our highest priority. Find out about services that can help keep all Monarch's at the top of their game! ( Learn More )
Monarch Family
Monarch Family Connection is the primary means of communication with family members. ( Learn More )
Academic Programs
Discover what you love! Search our programs by Academic Interest, Program, or Career ( Learn More )
Transportation & Parking
Our mission is to provide high quality, dynamic transportation and parking services to the Monarch community. ( Learn More )
Experience Guaranteed
Enhance your college career by participating in any of our exceptional experiential learning opportunities that'll help secure you a job after graduation. ( Learn More )
Monarch Family Portal
Our family portal gives you the opportunity to learn more about ODU through articles, stay up to date with relevant information, and join the growing community of fellow monarchs. (Sign Up)
Hear the why, see the where and explore Monarch Nation!
