VERY IMPORTANT:
TA Authorization Forms require a SSN or UIN
It is imperative to include a SSN or UIN on all tuition assistance documents. Per military policy, SSN are not printed on military service member's tuition assistance (TA) authorizations. There will be blanks to supply either a Social Security number (SSN) or University ID number (UIN). If you do not provide a SSN or UIN on the form, it cannot be processed, which will cause additional billing notices and could result in late fees, account holds, and collection fees .
Student Payments
Master of Engineering Management (MEM Ashore Program) participants are subject to all financial policies at Old Dominion University unless exceptions are specifically noted. Students are encouraged to refer to Student Billing & Payments and the University Catalog for detailed information on policies and procedures.
The MEM Ashore Program's registration is not limited to the typical semester schedule, and tuition deadlines may not coincide with enrollment periods. Accordingly, the tuition is due at the time of registration.
MEM Ashore Program
The University does not have control over the disbursement of funds from the Veterans' Administration. Students must pay all charges by the end date of the deferment period even if have not been received. The purpose of the deferment is to permit additional time for veterans, however the time is limited and cannot be extended beyond the published deadline.
Students participating in educational programs through the Department of Veterans Affairs may qualify for a deferment of tuition and fees (only). Interested students should contact the Office of the Registrar. Deferments are only granted if the appropriate paperwork has been processed by the Registrar's Office prior to the tuition deadline for each semester.
Veterans deferments are independent and should not be confused with other University payment arrangements. Students with debts to the University are not eligible.
For Students Using VA Educational Benefits:
For students using VA Educational Benefits and students who are utilizing their VA Benefits may qualify for a veteran's deferment at least 90 days from the tuition deadline. Charges not covered by the VA must be paid by the tuition deadline to prevent late penalties .
Fall deferment ends: November 25th
Spring deferment ends: April 10th
Summer deferment ends: October 3rd
Veterans' Services
Chapter 33
Based on Veteran's Affairs (VA) requirements, recipients of Chapter 33 benefits will have their funds posted after the end of the 50% refund period.
Student Payments
Third Party Payments
Military Tuition Assistance (TA) payments and payments by participants in any of these programs are considered "Third Party Payments." Certain University policies apply.
Third Party Payments
Payment Reminders
Tuition is due at the time of registration. Financial penalties will apply to all unpaid accounts at the next account review cycle, which occurs on the first of each month.
If paying by Tuition Assistance (TA) or by a Graduate Education Voucher (GEV), submit the authorization form and personal payments to the Office of Finance.
TA and GEV authorizations that authorize payment of 100% of the changes may be faxed to 757-683-5407.
Eligible students may also use Veterans Affairs Benefits. Please contact your nearest Navy College Office for information regarding Tuition Assistance, to obtain points of contact for Veterans Affairs or to reach a Navy College representative.
Students whose service in the uniformed services requires sudden withdrawal or prolonged absence from enrollment at ODU should review Board of Visitors Policy 1416.
Sudden Withdrawal / Prolonged Absence Policy
Institution Policy for Return of Unearned Tuition Assistance (TA) Funds to the Government
To comply with the new Department of Defense policy, Old Dominion University will return any unearned TA (Tuition Assistance) funds to the military Service branch on a prorated basis through the 60% portion of the period for which the funds were provided.
In instances when a student stops attending due to a demonstrated military service obligation, the University will work with them to identify solutions that will not result in student debt for the returned portion.
Institution Submission Schedule
16-week (112 days) Course Withdraw Submitted:
Before or during weeks 1-3
100% return**
