February 1
Graduate admission at Old Dominion adheres to strict application deadlines.
A complete application and supporting credentials must be received by the stated program deadline, or admission consideration will be applied to the next available semester.
International graduate students are eligible to apply for financial assistance in the form of departmental research and teaching assistantships.
Certain graduate programs require much earlier deadlines for both admission consideration and financial assistance. Direct inquires regarding assistantship awards to the Graduate Program Director of your desired program of study.
Review Additional Important Dates
Provisional Admission
Graduate provisional admission is granted at the discretion of the department of study, and may not be available for all degree programs. Examples of provisional admission may include completion of additional required course work, standardized tests, or other requirements set forth by the graduate program director.
Highly qualified applicants holding a three-year Bachelor's degree may be considered for provisional admission at the Master's level.
Conditional Admission & English Language Proficiency
Conditional admission to Old Dominion University is offered only to those highly qualified applicants meeting University admission requirements with the exception of English language proficiency . Granting of conditional admission is subject to program approval, and may not be available for all programs of study.
Distant Learning
Beyond the traditional, face to face classroom instruction, Old Dominion University offers live course delivery, or Distant Learning , anywhere a high speed internet connection is available.
Programs of study include over 70 undergraduate and graduate degrees and certificate & licensure programs.
There are four regional Higher Education Centers , and dozens of designated on-site learning locations throughout Virginia, Arizona and the state of Washington.
Students in F-1 or J-1 visa status must attend classes on the main Norfolk campus.
Graduate Awards & Assistantships
The Office of Graduate Studies coordinates the selection process for all graduate awards. The graduate program director in the student's declared major is the key person for making the nomination to the vice provost of graduate studies for all graduate awards, unless another contact person or application is indicated below. For more information, contact the Office of Graduate Studies.
Teaching and research assistantships are available to full-time graduate students who meet the requirements listed under the Graduate Assistantship Guidelines . Stipends vary by program and college. Additional information is available from the Office of Graduate Studies. Read more information from the Graduate Catalog .
Graduate admission at Old Dominion adheres to strict application deadlines.
A complete application and supporting credentials must be received by the stated program deadline, or admission consideration will be applied to the next available semester.
International graduate students are eligible to apply for financial assistance in the form of departmental research and teaching assistantships.
Certain graduate programs require much earlier deadlines for both admission consideration and financial assistance. Direct inquires regarding assistantship awards to the Graduate Program Director of your desired program of study.
Application/Admission Deferment
General deferment requests are honored for up to one academic year from the initial term of application or admission, though, any new course work completed in the interim will be reviewed before a final approval is granted. After one academic year, students may re-apply with updated transcripts, supporting credentials and application fee. Students in F/J status must submit updated financial documents, and return all unused forms I-20 or DS-2019.
Defer your International Application
Non-Degree International Applicants
Admission to non-degree study is not automatic, and does not imply admission to any University degree program. Students under suspension from another college or university are not eligible to attend as non-degree. All non-degree students must meet the continuance requirements as stated in the current University Catalog.
Undergraduate Requirements
Undergraduate applicants must complete their secondary education prior to the intended term of entry.
Unofficial copy of the leaving examination/certificate or degree verification/diplomas from the last full-time secondary school, college or university attended.
Copy of non-immigrant visa and passport identity page.
Undergraduate students are advised to take no more than 24 semester hours as non-degree students.
Non-degree students should verify specific course requirements or prerequisites with a departmental advisor before registration.
Graduate Requirements
Graduate applicants must complete their equivalent bacccalaureate education prior to the intended term of entry.
Unofficial copy of the leaving examination/certificate or degree verification/diplomas from the last full-time secondary school, college or university attended.
Copy of non-immigrant visa and passport identity page.
Non-degree graduate students who have completed or will exceed 12 semester hours should contact the Graduate School for guidance on gaining admission into a graduate program.
Non-degree students should verify specific course requirements or prerequisites with a departmental advisor before registration.
Demonstrated English Language Proficiency
F-1 and Non-Degree Study
Students seeking or holding an F-1 visa are ineligible for non-degree study, and must be degree seeking. However, if currently enrolled at a U.S. institution in F-1 status, non-degree (incidental) study may be permitted if the following apply:
Participating in a Optional Practical Training (OPT) program.
Visiting student seeking a course not offered at your current institution. Both Old Dominion University and your F-1 program institution must be in approval.
Applicant Checklist
