Fall 2023 Housing Information
Wednesday, March 29, 2023: Noon - Housing Application Opens via ODU Housing Portal
Off-campus students interested in on-campus housing may complete the housing application on or after March 29. Completed applications will be waitlisted and students assigned on a space available basis.
May 15, 2023: Cancellation deadline for $200 partial application fee refund
Note: After May 15, the $250 application fee is not refundable.
July 13, 2023: If spaces permits, Auto-Allocation of Off-Campus Students will begin
As a reminder, off-campus residents seeking to live on campus are not guaranteed housing. Only once all incoming (new) and return housing students are assigned will off campus students be offered an assignment.
Expanded Housing
Housing & Residence Life may find it necessary to expand our capacity to support the opportunity for as many students as possible to live at ODU. Expanded housing accommodations for students may include the temporary expansion of on-campus spaces or securing off-site housing accommodations.
Residential amenities offered for traditional assignments are available to students living in expanded housing. These include room furnishings, desk coverage, secure access, staffing, laundry, meals, and shuttle service. Residents can and should utilize all campus resources available to any student living on-campus housing. Our staff are committed to ensuring your academic success wherever you reside.
Any student who completes an application for on-campus housing can be assigned to temporary accommodations. The length of stay can range from a few days to an entire semester. If a student is assigned to a temporary space, they will be reassigned to a permanent room as space permits. Moving assistance is available as needed. As with on-campus housing, you will be asked to consolidate your room if there is a vacancy. Our goal is to ensure you have a rewarding experience.
Off-Campus Housing
As you consider your options for housing, feel free to explore the Off-Campus Student Life website . The Off-Campus Student Life Office was created as an initiative by the Dean of Students to provide a centralized location for off-campus students to receive guidance, support, and resources for their off-campus experience. The website also includes property listings of landlords in the area who would like to rent to ODU students.
Please note that the listing of off-campus residential properties is provided for informational purposes only and does not imply endorsement or recommendation of any off-campus residential property for security, safety, or suitability by the University. It is the responsibility of the prospective tenant to investigate security, safety and suitability of any off-campus residential property. ODU is not affiliated with any landlord that lists available property including ODUrent.
