Colleges & Schools
College of Arts & Letters
From actor to journalist; diplomat to musician; philosopher to lawyer - a solid foundation in arts and letters will prepare you for rigorous, intellectual and creative inquiry
Explore Arts & Letters
Strome College of Business
Whether you are interested in accounting, banking or becoming a CEO, we prepare you for success in modern business, and for what's coming next.
Explore Business
Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
From education, STEM technology and counseling, to human movement science, industry training and communication disorders, our diverse programs are recognized nationally for meeting the needs of our global society.
Explore Education & Professional Studies
Batten College of Engineering
The Frank Batten College of Engineering & Technology at Old Dominion University is built on a foundation of innovation and excellence in engineering education.
Explore Engineering
College of Health Sciences
The College of Health Sciences will prepare you with the skills to improve individual and community health through research and global connections.
Explore Health Sciences
College of Sciences
If you're a puzzle solver, the College of Sciences has an engaging program with well-equipped research environments to develop you into the scientist and innovator of tomorrow.
Explore Sciences
School of Cybersecurity
Our mission is to promote cybersecurity research and education in an interdisciplinary setting. Faculty and staff from across all colleges and reporting units at the university, including Information Technology Services, VMASC and Military Affairs.
Explore Cybersecurity
School of Nursing
The School of Nursing helps students at all levels of their medical career advance, offering bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees as well as specialized certificates.
Explore Nursing
Perry Honors College
Imagine an undergraduate education where passions become possibilities, and first-hand experiences give shape to your goals. Where academic strengths become professional skills, and civic engagement is an essential metric of success.
Explore Honors
Graduate School
The Old Dominion University Graduate School is proud to be a part of a community of scholars dedicated to the principles of equity, inclusion, and diversity. Our priority is the provision of the richest and most effective educational experience possible.
Explore the Graduate School
Right where you are
ODUGlobal will help you fit education into your busy life. Whatever the time, wherever the place, we make it work for you.
