Office of Counseling Services
Need Urgent/Crisis Support? Visit Emergencies .
Although our office name is Counseling Services, we provide more services than our name implies. We support the academic mission of the university by helping students resolve stressful circumstances in their lives that can be a hindrance to their academic goals. We do this through consultation, individual and group counseling, psychiatric services, crisis intervention, and variety of outreaches and workshops for the student body.
Our services are offered in an atmosphere that is welcoming and respectful of all students regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, citizenship or physical status.
Our staff is committed to your success and we are devoted to partnering with you to make your college years a satisfying experience.
How to Make an Appointment
Time Management (Module)
Our Service Delivery Model of Care
We have adopted a flexible step model of care which provides students with the right level of service based on their presenting needs, and offers quick access to services through on-demand, same-day counseling options.
Spring & Fall: Monday-Thursday: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. Friday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Summer & Breaks: Monday-Friday: 8 am - 5 pm
Campus Wide Suicide Prevention Training Program for Faculty & Staff
ODU offers At-Risk Training to get hands on practice, simulations with immediate feedback on identifying students at risk, intervening and effectively referring to campus resources.
Faculty Guide to Supporting Student Mental Health
Need a little extra support?
ULifeline is a free resource available to all ODU students and has information on how to better cope with anxiety, stress, and depression.
Take an anonymous online mental health screening
Interested in finding a private practice therapist in the community?
ODU has partnered with PATH who will provide concierge service for ODU faculty, staff, and students. Path is a mental health referral group that can help you find a high-quality therapist who is in-network with your health insurance. Path's services are open to all Old Dominion Students, Faculty and Staff, and their families, and they have a broad and diverse network of Virginia therapists that you can select from. The Path team will help you find the right therapist, understand your insurance benefits, and are available 7 days a week to help you feel supported in your search. Visit Path's website or contact 757-720-2953 (text or call) to begin your search.
