ODU Federal School Code-003728
COVID-19 and Federal Student Aid Info
The U.S. Department of Education’s COVID-19 relief for student loans is ending this year. Student loan interest will resume starting on Sept. 1, 2023, and payments will be due starting in October. The Department of Education will communicate with borrowers from now until their first payment due date.
Find information about the impact of COVID-19 for current students and federal student loans for borrowers in repayment and other topics by accessing: https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/coronavirus
News Release: Virginia Launches Alternative Application for State Financial Aid for Previously Ineligible Students
Beginning 2022-2023 aid year: Virginians who are undocumented and nonimmigrants, have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals status (DACA ) may qualify for Virginia State financial aid. Please familiarize yourself with the application process and who may qualify .
**Students eligible to complete a FAFSA should not complete the VASA, they should complete the FAFSA only.
Course Program of Study (CPoS)
The U.S. Department of Education require that institutions ensure that financial aid funds are used to pay for courses that apply to a student’s degree program.
Course Program of Study (CPoS) refers to all courses needed to earn the degree. Only courses that count toward your program of study can be considered when determining aid eligibility for federal, state and institutional funds. Courses must be required for degree completion in order for those courses to count toward enrollment status requirements for aid.
Taking classes that are not in your Course Program of Study for your officially declared major may result in a reduction or cancellation to your overall financial aid package.
Virginia Military Survivors & Dependents Education Program
Provides education benefits to spouses and children of military members killed, missing in action, taken prisoner, or who have been rated by the U.S. Dept. of Veterans Affairs as totally and permanently or at least 90% disabled as a result of military service. Find more information on the Virginia Department of Veterans Services website .
Questions about Financial Aid?
