Applications received after the published deadlines will be evaluated on a rolling basis.
First-year Student Scholarship Information
Merit-based Scholarships
First-year applicants who apply with or without submitting test scores are automatically considered for merit-based scholarships. The awards are based on academic performance, managed by the Office of Admissions, and recipients are notified at the time of admission to the University.
Other Awards
Institutional and Endowed Scholarships, awarded by the Office of Financial Aid, are based on an applicant selecting "Yes" on the institutional question of the admission application and choosing from the appropriate categories. Alternatively, a student's co-curricular experiences or involvements typically noted on an Activity Resume can be emailed to FinAidScholars@odu.edu , notifying the Office of Student Financial Aid of eligibility that may be considered.
Non-Traditional Freshman
Non-traditional freshman applicants are defined as students who graduated from high school, or received a GED, more than two years ago and never enrolled at a regionally accredited college or university.
Application Checklist
$50 fee (non-refundable)
Official High School Transcript (or GED Transcript)*
*Official transcripts are defined as those sent directly from the high school or selected electronic service to Old Dominion University. Transcripts emailed from the student to ODU are not acceptable.
SAT/ACT Scores, Self-reported Scores IF completion of high school was within the past three years.
Required Credentials
Official High School Transcript (or GED Transcript)
SAT/ACT Test Scores IF completion of high school was within the past three years.
Transfer, Second-degree, and Military Applicants
Transfer applicants are defined as students who, following completion of high school, attended (or are attending) a college or university (not Old Dominion University) prior to their intended term of enrollment at ODU. Second degree applicants have earned at least one undergraduate degree and are seeking to earn another undergraduate degree. Military applicants who are seeking their first degree are considered transfer students.
Application Checklist
$50 fee (non-refundable)
Official College Transcript(s) (from ALL previously attended institutions)*
*Official transcripts are defined as those sent directly from the institution or selected electronic service (i.e. Parchment) to Old Dominion University. Transcripts emailed from the student to ODU are not acceptable.
If you choose an electronic transcript service, transcripts should be emailed to admissions@odu.edu
If you choose to mail credentials* to our office, each set of official transcripts must be kept in its original sealed envelope, then placed in a new, larger envelope, and mailed to ODU. Opened transcripts are considered unofficial and cannot be used in the application process.
In order to correctly match credentials to applications, please list your complete legal name and date of birth on all documents.
Official High School Transcript (if earning and transferring with less than 24 college credits)
All documents submitted during the application process become the property of Old Dominion University and cannot be returned.
Military Applicants - Processed as Transfer Students
Old Dominion University, a military friendly institution ranked the top "Best for Vets" school in Virginia by Military Times, has been named a "Military Friendly School" 8 years in a row by G.I. Jobs Magazine. A quarter of the ODU student body is affiliated with the U.S. military. We provide the tools and resources necessary to help our military Monarchs succeed. ODU Military Website ►
Deadlines
